Daldosa
-------

Daldosa is known to have been historically played in only about four different 
isolated locations in Scandinavia. These are Jaeren in Norway, Thy of Jutland, 
Denmark, Mors of northern Denmark, Fano of southwestern Denmark and Bornholm, 
a Swedish island in the Baltic Sea.

Objective 

The goal is to capture all of the opponent's counters. To make a quicker game, 
it may be agreed beforehand that the game is over when one player has been 
reduced to one counter (the other player then being the winner).

Play 

To start the game each player throws both dice, adds their totals and the 
player that rolls highest goes first. Turns alternate and on their turn each 
player throws both dice once. A throw showing "A" is a special throw called 
a dal. When a player throws a dal, they may turn one counter parallel to its 
row (or in whatever method used to show rank) and move it forward one position. 

An undalled counter may not move and only a throw of dal allows a player to 
start moving any one of their counters. All other numbers shown on the dice 
only entitle the player to move a previously dalled counter forward the 
equivalent amount. The two dice totals may be added to move forward one 
counter or they may be used separately for two different counters. 

If a player has no dalled counters and does not throw any dals, the turn 
is forfeit. A throw of two dals allots the player who cast it an extra turn 
after their move. Any move that can be taken must be taken.

No two counters may ever occupy the same cell. When landing by exact throw 
at a cell occupied by an opposing counter that counter is captured by 
replacement and removed from the board and game. Friendly or opposing counters 
may be passed over without effect to either counter.

Each player's counters move first through the home row to the stern or rear of 
the ship/board, then through the middle row towards the prow (front), then into 
the opponent's home row back towards the stern. From here, it moves into 
the middle row again. Any counter never returns to its own home row.

See Also: https://sites.google.com/site/boardandpieces/list-of-games/dalds
And Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F8n6U-CMK_c
